(Samples) Transfer in (#231)
OfficeDev/office-scripts-docs: docs/resources/samples/get-table-data.md

---
title: 'Output Excel data as JSON'
description: 'Learn how to output Excel table data as JSON to use in Power Automate.'
ms.date: 03/18/2021
localization_priority: Normal
---

> # Output Excel table data (including hyperlink data) as JSON for usage in Power Automate

Reviewer: I think the hyperlink bit bloats the H1.
```suggestion
# Output Excel table data as JSON for usage in Power Automate
```

> Often, it is beneficial to extract Excel table data as an array of objects (each item representing a row) in the form of JSON using Office Scripts. This helps with extracting the data from Excel in the same format that is visible to the user. Data can then be fed into other systems using Power Automate flows.

Reviewer: Some suggestions to make this more scenario driven and authoritative. 
```suggestion
Excel table data can be represented as an array of objects in the form of JSON. Each object represents a row in the table. This helps extract the data from Excel in a consistent format that is visible to the user. The data can then be given to other systems through Power Automate flows.
```

_Input table data_

![Screenshot displaying input table data](../../images/table-input.png)

> A variation of this sample involves doing the same as described previously, but this time also selecting the hyperlink associated with one of the table columns. This allows data not readily available at the cell level to be surfaced in the JSON.

Reviewer: Suggestions for brevity.
```suggestion
A variation of this sample also includes the hyperlinks in one of the table columns. This allows additional levels of cell data to be surfaced in the JSON.
```

_Input table data that includes hyperlinks_

![Screenshot displaying table data that includes hyperlinks](../../images/table-hyperlink-view.png)

_Dialog to edit hyperlink_

![Screenshot displaying dialog to edit hyperlink](../../images/table-hyperlink-edit.png)

## Sample Excel file

Download the file <a href="table-data-with-hyperlinks.xlsx">table-data-with-hyperlinks.xlsx</a> used in these samples and try it out yourself!

## Office Scripts sample code: Return table data as JSON

> [!NOTE]

> > To suit your needs or data, change the `interface TableData` structure to match your table columns. Note that for column names that contain spaces, be sure to place your key within quotes as with `"Event ID"` in the sample.

Reviewer: I think this makes the suggestion more direct.
```suggestion
> You can change the `interface TableData` structure to match your table columns. Note that for column names with spaces, be sure to place your key in quotation marks, such as with `"Event ID"` in the sample.
```

---
title: 'Output Excel data as JSON'
description: 'Learn how to output Excel table data as JSON to use in Power Automate.'
ms.date: 03/18/2021
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Output Excel table data (including hyperlink data) as JSON for usage in Power Automate

> Often it is beneficial to extract Excel table data as an array of objects (each item representing a row) in the form of JSON using Office Scripts. This helps with extracting the data from Excel in the same format that is visible to the user. Data can then be fed into other systems using Power Automate flows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Often, it is beneficial to extract Excel table data as an array of objects (each item representing a row) in the form of JSON using Office Scripts. This helps with extracting the data from Excel in the same format that is visible to the user. Data can then be fed into other systems using Power Automate flows.
```
Add comma after often when used as introductory word in a sentence. (Omit comma after often when used as a modifyer.)

A variation of this sample involves doing the same as described previously, but this time also selecting the hyperlink associated with one of the table columns. This allows data not readily available at the cell level to be surfaced in the JSON.

## Sample Excel file

Download the file <a href="table-data-with-hyperlinks.xlsx">table-data-with-hyperlinks.xlsx</a> used in this sample and try it out yourself!

> ## Office Scripts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 1. [Return table data as JSON](#return-table-data-as-json)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 1. [Return table data as JSON with hyperlink text](#return-table-data-as-json-with-hyperlink-text)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ### Return table data as JSON

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Office Script sample code: Return table data as JSON
```

> #### Screenshot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
Unnecessary heading

![Screenshot displaying input table data](../../images/table-input.png)

> #### Script

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```TypeScript
function main(workbook: ExcelScript.Workbook): TableData[] {
  const table = workbook.getWorksheet('PlainTable').getTables()[0];
  // If you know the table name, you can also do the following:
  // const table = workbook.getTable('Table13436');
  const texts = table.getRange().getTexts();
  let returnObjects: TableData[] = [];
  if (table.getRowCount() > 0)  {
    returnObjects = returnObjectFromValues(texts);
  } 
  console.log(JSON.stringify(returnObjects));  
  return returnObjects
}

function returnObjectFromValues(values: string[][]): TableData[] {
  let objArray = [];
  let objKeys: string[] = [];
  for (let i = 0; i < values.length; i++) {
    if (i === 0) {
      objKeys = values[i]
      continue;
    }
    let obj = {}
    for (let j = 0; j < values[i].length; j++) {
      obj[objKeys[j]] = values[i][j]
    }
    objArray.push(obj);
  }
  return objArray as TableData[];
}

interface BasicObj {
  [key: string]: string
}

interface TableData {
  "Event ID": string
  Date: string
  Location: string
  Capacity: string
  Speakers: string
}
```

> #### Sample output

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Sample output
```

```json
[{
    "Event ID": "E107",
    "Date": "2020-12-10",
    "Location": "Montgomery",
    "Capacity": "10",
    "Speakers": "Debra Berger"
}, {
    "Event ID": "E108",
    "Date": "2020-12-11",
    "Location": "Montgomery",
    "Capacity": "10",
    "Speakers": "Delia Dennis"
}, {
    "Event ID": "E109",
    "Date": "2020-12-12",
    "Location": "Montgomery",
    "Capacity": "10",
    "Speakers": "Diego Siciliani"
}, {
    "Event ID": "E110",
    "Date": "2020-12-13",
    "Location": "Boise",
    "Capacity": "25",
    "Speakers": "Gerhart Moller"
}, {
    "Event ID": "E111",
    "Date": "2020-12-14",
    "Location": "Salt Lake City",
    "Capacity": "20",
    "Speakers": "Grady Archie"
}, {
    "Event ID": "E112",
    "Date": "2020-12-15",
    "Location": "Fremont",
    "Capacity": "25",
    "Speakers": "Irvin Sayers"
}, {
    "Event ID": "E113",
    "Date": "2020-12-16",
    "Location": "Salt Lake City",
    "Capacity": "20",
    "Speakers": "Isaiah Langer"
}, {
    "Event ID": "E114",
    "Date": "2020-12-17",
    "Location": "Salt Lake City",
    "Capacity": "20",
    "Speakers": "Johanna Lorenz"
}]
```

> ### Return table data as JSON with hyperlink text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Office Script sample code: Return table data as JSON with hyperlink text
```

> #### Screenshots

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

![Screenshot displaying table data that includes hyperlinks](../../images/table-hyperlink-view.png)
![Screenshot displaying dialog to edit hyperlink](../../images/table-hyperlink-edit.png)

> #### Script

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> [!NOTE]
> The script always extracts hyperlinks from the 4th column (0 index) of the table. You can change that order or include multiple columns as hyperlink data by modifying the code under the comment `// For the 4th column (0 index), extract the hyperlink and use that instead of text.`

> ```TypeScript

Reviewer 2: add code comments

Author: Yeah, I had received this feedback before. We're tracking with this item: 4958338

  // const table = workbook.getTable('Table13436');
  const texts = table.getRange().getTexts();
  let returnObjects: TableData[] = [];
  if (table.getRowCount() > 0)  {
    returnObjects = returnObjectFromValues(texts, range);
  } 
  console.log(JSON.stringify(returnObjects));  
  return returnObjects
}

function returnObjectFromValues(values: string[][], range: ExcelScript.Range): TableData[] {
  let objArray = [];
  let objKeys: string[] = [];
  for (let i = 0; i < values.length; i++) {
    if (i === 0) {
      objKeys = values[i]
      continue;
    }
    let obj = {}
    for (let j = 0; j < values[i].length; j++) {
      // For the 4th column (0 index), extract the hyperlink and use that instead of text. 
      if (j === 4) {
        obj[objKeys[j]] = range.getCell(i, j).getHyperlink().address;
      } else {
        obj[objKeys[j]] = values[i][j];
      }
    }
    objArray.push(obj);
  }
  return objArray as TableData[];
}

interface BasicObj {
  [key: string]: string
}

interface TableData {
  "Event ID": string
  Date: string
  Location: string
  Capacity: string
  "Search link": string
  Speakers: string
}
```

> ## Sample output

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Sample output
```
